CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to the Data Umbrella Blog

## Running website locally
Please see instructions for [building the website locally](https://github.com/data-umbrella/data-umbrella.github.io/blob/main/README.md).

## Blog Template Formats
- The articles in markdown file (`.md`) is location in this folder:  https://github.com/data-umbrella/data-umbrella.github.io/tree/main/_posts
- You can copy and rename an existing markdown post and edit it.

### Images
- Images can be placed in this folder:  https://github.com/data-umbrella/data-umbrella.github.io/tree/main/images
- We suggest putting images related to one blog in its own folder to keep the files organized.

#### Example of adjusting image sizes

```
### Sessions 1 & 2
<p float="left">
   <a href=""> </a>
  <img src="../images/2022-2023-pymc-study-sessions/S01-pymc.png" width="45%" height="45%" style="padding:1px;border:thick solid black;" align="top" />
   <a href=""></a>
  <img src="../images/2022-2023-pymc-study-sessions/S02-pymc.png" width="45%" height="45%" style="padding:1px;border:thick solid black;" align="top"/> 
</p>
```

## Questions
Any questions, please open up an issue. 

## Thank you
Thank you for contributing.

---

## FAQs

### 1)

### 2)

Commit message:

Update CONTRIBUTING.md highlighting example

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to the Data Umbrella Blog

## Running website locally
Please see instructions for [building the website locally](https://github.com/data-umbrella/data-umbrella.github.io/blob/main/README.md).

## Blog Template Formats
- The articles in markdown file (`.md`) is location in this folder:  https://github.com/data-umbrella/data-umbrella.github.io/tree/main/_posts
- You can copy and rename an existing markdown post and edit it.

### Images
- Images can be placed in this folder:  https://github.com/data-umbrella/data-umbrella.github.io/tree/main/images
- We suggest putting images related to one blog in its own folder to keep the files organized.

#### Example of highlighting

```
<span style="background-color: #CAE9F5;">
working sessions to contribute to the open source library.            
</span>
```

#### Example of adjusting image sizes

```
### Sessions 1 & 2
<p float="left">
   <a href=""> </a>
  <img src="../images/2022-2023-pymc-study-sessions/S01-pymc.png" width="45%" height="45%" style="padding:1px;border:thick solid black;" align="top" />
   <a href=""></a>
  <img src="../images/2022-2023-pymc-study-sessions/S02-pymc.png" width="45%" height="45%" style="padding:1px;border:thick solid black;" align="top"/> 
</p>
```

## Questions
Any questions, please open up an issue. 

## Thank you
Thank you for contributing.

---

## FAQs

### 1)

### 2)
